
--- PAGE 4 ---
Contents  
 
Introduction  
An outline of the origins of our school; Goju Ryu  
Fundamentals of  Goju Ryu Karate -Do 
Training in Goju Ryu Karate  
Goju Ryu Karate Do Hoei Juku specific Dojo Rules  
Warm -up Exercises  
The Kyu/Dan Grade (coloured belt) system  
The Dojo Kun  
Stances of Goju Ryu  
Footwork and movement  
Kata  
Breathing  
Kumite – practice fighting  
Natural Weapons of the body  
Training combinations  
The 10 one -step moves explained  
The S yllabus for promotion  
Gaining the Winning Edge  
Martial Arts injuries  
Goju Ryu Terminology  
Notes
--- PAGE 5 ---
Introduction  
 
It has been my intention to write this student handbook for a very long time. With years of note -making and seminar 
note preparation, plus assorted leaflets for the clubs, there is an abundance of material in circulation just waiting to be 
collated into on e volume without too many pictures and with the essential information needed to gain a clearer 
understanding of Karate and in particular of Goju -Ryu Karate. With the incorporation of our own web -based links  for 
visual performance of movements in our style of Karate, I believe this is the perfect combination of easily accessible 
information and action images that can be used to follow the movements.  Despite this, I am well aware that this small 
volume can not answer all the questions or truly reflect the Art  in its entirety. Therefore, this training manual is not 
intended to replace constant, regular training in a karate dojo under the guidance of an experienced Black Belt instructor.  
So, by taking on board all the information in this handbook and asking any further questions of your own Sensei, you will 
be able to gain more than just the great benefits of health and fitness. There are many advantages to learning a Martial 
Art and to do this completely, it is also necessary to take on board the history and ori gins of the Art, the language used in 
practicing that Art and the details required to ach eive a senior level within the Association.  
Considering this, I hope that you practice hard on the techniques of Goju -Ryu, as there are so many physical aspects to 
this form of Karate  with its techniques, forms, body -conditioning and pair work . Study hard too, in order to learn the 
roots of the Art and be a ble to transmit this information to future generations of Martial Artists. In this way, we will all be 
able to mai ntain, as much as is possible, something close to the spirit of the Art as it was practiced by the great names in 
Japanese, Okinawan and Chinese Martial Arts over the centuries. Now that Karate is a household word  around the world, 
it can so easily become no more than a shadow of its original form. Influences such as modern competition, financial 
incentives, egotistical individuals or merely the lack of information can change what was taken from Okinawa to mainland  
Japan in the 1920s and 1930s to the point where it is almost unrecognisable as the same Art.     
I have found over the years that a great many students train in Karate without really worrying about which style it is, who 
the Masters were in the history of  the Art and so on.  To some extent, the sylte itself is less important than the way in 
which you are training, the effort made by both teachers and students.  It is my intention therefore to attempt to record 
many of the points that can often be ignored or forgotten in our hurry to get fitter, to lose weight, even to gain the 
coveted black belt. Whilst it is important to set your own goals and timelines in training, it is also essential, in my mind,  to 
remember that Karate -Do, the Way of the Empty Hand, is a  true ‘Way’, and must retain the aspects of respect, humility, 
self-control and discipline that separate any  Art from the many forms of kick -boxing , cage -fighting  and other systems of 
training  and competing  in physical violence. The hardest part of Karate training should be to overcome our own inner 
weaknesses in pursuit of true Karate  performance . 
Finally, with the advent of modern internet technology, we are able to provide various downloadable materials, links to 
movie clips and other resources including  a photo gallery on our website. The content of this does change from time to 
time, so for more information, please refer to www.hoeijuku.com  
I wish you well in your study and practice of Goju -Ryu Karate.              
Brian Hinchliffe  8th Dan
--- PAGE 16 ---
The Kyu /Dan  Grade (Coloured belt) system  
 
The system of using coloured belts to denote rank is  not traditional but  a relatively new practice, being adopted by Karate 
practitioners after the introduction of Karate to mainland Japan and fol lowing the pattern of belts used in Judo.  The 
colours used are not universal, although there is generally agreement on the minimum time taken between promotions . 
beginner    white belt  minimum 3 months to first promotion  
   
10th Kyu   yellow belt  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
9th Kyu   yellow belt + stripe  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
8th Kyu   orange belt  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
7th Kyu   orange belt + stripe  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
6th Kyu   green belt  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
5th Kyu   green belt + stripe  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
4th Kyu   blue belt  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
3rd Kyu   blue belt + stripe  minimum 3 months to next promotion  
   
2nd Kyu   brown belt  minimum 6 months to next promotion  
   
1st Kyu   brown belt + stripe  minimum 6 months to next promotion  
   
1st Dan   black belt  minimum 2 years to next promotion  
   
2nd Dan   black belt  minimum 3 years to next promotion  
   
3rd Dan   black belt  minimum 4 years to next promotion  
 
The above guideline is based upon training regularly several times each week and making steady progress through the 
syllabus. Times between grades indicated here are a minimum and it may take rather longer,  depending upon individual 
progress made in training. Any variation to the above will require the consideration of the teacher, or examiner. Anyone 
joining from another club will be allowed to wear their existing belt until training with the Ho -Ei Juku for  up to 6 months, 
by which time they should have achieved a belt, or grade within this Organisation.  
Although the Dan grades wear black belts, it is possible for 6th Dan and above to adopt the red and white belt as is done 
in Judo and increasingly popular i n Karate too. The red and white belt is awarded by the Sensei to most senior ranks to 
demonstrate their outstanding contributions to training, teaching and developing the Art.
--- PAGE 20 ---
Kata  
 
The word kata means the continuous moving forms we practice. A kata consists of a series of movements done to a 
specific pattern and varies for different styles. There are three groups of kata  in the Goju Ryu system; the Fukyu 
(elementary) kata , created by Miyagi Chojun Sensei as an introduction for beginners , the Hei shu kata, performed in a 
state of constant dynamic tension , and the Kaishu kata, faster, flowing kata which have origins in older  Southern Chinese 
Boxing forms.  
Some students wish to practice free fighting too soon and their technique may not develop corr ectly into the style they 
represent. Kata practice is necessary to understand proper karate technique  and this is where the hert of the system and 
the most dangerous techniques can be found . The following points should be observed whilst practicing kata:  
 Do not rush through the kata but perform each movement distinctly and correctly as if standing still.  
 Concentrate on correct foot positioning in the stances ; first step into the stance, then execute the technique.  
 When turning and moving from one stance to another, the upper body should be kept upright and straight to 
maintain balance and speed.  
 Each kata begins and ends with the correct ceremonial stances and movement as a token of respect and 
sincerity. This must be performed with as much skill and concent ration as the rest of the kata.  
 
Kata name  Type  Japanese name  Approximate meaning in English  
Gekisai -Dai Ichi  fukyu kata  撃砕 第一  First fundamen tal Goju -Ryu Kata  
Gekisai -Dai Ni  fukyu kata  撃砕 第二  Second fundamen tal Goju -Ryu Kata  
Gekisai -Dai San  fukyu kata  撃砕 第三  Third fund amental Goju -Ryu Kata  
Sanchin  heishu kata  三戦  Powerful breathing, coordination exercise  
Tensho  heishu kata  転掌  Softer, flowing breathing exercise  
Saifa  kaishu kata  砕破  Beginning Kata;  means – breaking ground  
Seiunchin  kaishu kata  制引鎮  Beginning Kata ; means – march far quietly  
Shisochin  kaishu kata  四向鎮  Intermediate Kata ; means – fight four monks  
Sanseiru  kaishu kata  三十六手  Intermediate Kata ; means – 36 techniques  
Sepai  kaishu kata  十八手  Advanced Kata ; means – 18 techniques  
Sesan  kaishu kata  十三手  Advanced Kata ; means – 13 techniques  
Kururunfa  kaishu kata  久留頓破  Advanced Kata ; means – holding ground  
Suparenpei  kaishu kata  壱百零八手  Advanced Kata ; means – 108 techniques