
--- PAGE 9 ---
name was  said to be  a household word in Karate circles, and he appeared in all the major Martial Arts magazines and 
publications, both i n Japan and the western world.  Gōgen Yamaguchi was also famously kn own in the world of karate -dō 
as ‘the Cat’; he was a very small man, just over five feet, however he projected the impression of great bulk and an aura 
reminiscent of the samurai era. He was first dubbed 'the Cat' by American GI’s for his gliding walk and flowing hair. He 
alone was primarily responsible for the spread of Goju-Ryu throughout the world today. According to Gōgen Yamaguchi 
himself when interviewed by French magazine Karate journalist Rolla nd Gaillac, April 1977 edition , "Even today, young 
man, if you were to face me in combat, I would be able to determine in a second the strength of your Ki. Immediately I 
would know if you were a good opponent. It is this quality, and no other, which has given me the name of The Cat."  
Chōjun Miyagi Sensei visited the university dojo of  Kansai, Osaka, Ritsumeikan and Doshisha Universities, whilst attending 
Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. There , Gōgen Yamaguchi founded the Ritsumeikan daigaku karate kenkyū -kai, the first 
karate club in wes tern Japan and  infamous for its hard style training and fier ce karate fighters. After graduating from 
Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto in 1934, Yamaguchi  designed and introduced Jiyū -kumite which has become known 
today as sport  karate  kumite.  In 1935 he for med the All Japan Karate -do Goju -Kai Karate -dō Association, which later split 
into the JKF Gojukai and the J.K.G. A. 
Before the twenty -fifth anniversary of the death of Chojun Miyagi, Gogen Yamaguchi Hanshi went to his Dojo in Okinawa 
to receive instructio n in Kata in March of 1978. Gogen Yamaguchi Hanshi, former head of the All Japan Karatedo Goju  Ryu 
Association [JKGA], recognized Yagi Sensei as rightful heir to Chojun Miyagi Sensei’s 
School. Yamaguchi Hanshi studied with Chojun Miyagi Sensei for a short period of time 
and represented Goju R yu Karatedo on mainland Japan. Gogen Yamaguchi Hanshi visited 
Okinawa many times (also Yagi visited Tokyo) to compare Kata and receive instruction in 
the advanced methods of Goju  Ryu. Yagi Sensei has said “When I used t o go used to Tokyo 
I would train at Gogen Yamaguchi’s Dojo and teach Goju R yu to his youngest sons and 
daughter. I should say that if you study in the modern day J KGA of their Dojo you can have 
confidence that you are learning the advanced methods of Goju  Ryu.” The standard and 
quality of Miyagi’s Goju -Ryu Karate has been kept alive over the decades by the relentless 
efforts and devotion to training of a great many Masters in different organisations.  
 Kancho Tada Heiji was one of the earliest students of t he Ritsumei -Kan dojo and 
established the first of his ‘Seishikan’ dojo in Tambabashi, Kyoto in 1949. The three ‘Tada 
brothers’ became well -known in Karate circles as in addition to successful dojo in Kyoto and the surrounding areas of 
Osaka and Nara, Tada Masao Sensei spread the Seishikan brand of karate in Australia, where he lived for several years. 
Kancho T ada Heiji studied Karate with Yamaguch i Gogen and also under the expert guidance of Yagi Meitoku in Okinawa.  
The Seishikan bec ame quite a formidable c ompetitive school  from the 1970s, with successes in tournaments in Japan and 
Australia  against all other styles.  Meiyo -Kancho Tada Heiji passed away in September 2013.   
Brian Hinchliffe  first met Kancho Tada in Kyoto in 1989, whilst on a  tour of 
Japan and taking part i n the 15th annual Goju -kai championships as a 
member of the England Goju -Ryu Karate -Do Seiwa -Kai karate team of that 
year. After extensive correspondence, a return visit to Japan in 1991 was the 
true beginning of this very f ortunate and special relationship. The Seishikan 
was subsequently formed in the UK and successful groups operated in the 
south east of England, headed by Brian Hinchliffe, where twice -annual, 
karate competitions were held for many years and seminars were o ffered 
under senior Japanese instructors, including Kancho Tada himself, who 
visited England in 1991 .
--- PAGE 10 ---
As Brian Hinchliffe spent time in Japan occasionally, he was fortunate to be accommodated in Kancho Tada’s home for a 
while then went to live at the Obak u Mampuku -Ji temple  near Uji , where there were dojo practicing Judo and Kendo as 
well as Karate. This daily life and training at the Mampuku -Ji changed Brian's whole out look on life and the Martial Arts. 
Studying the Chinese forms of Chi Gung, and health exercises such as the Eight Pieces of Brocade.  This was also the first 
real exposure to the Japanese sword arts and eventually led to Brian Hinchliffe meeting, and being accepted as an iaido 
student of, Sensei Morinaka Masakatsu.  
Over time, it became clear  that operating several dojo in the UK practicing different arts under several different names 
was difficult to manage. Morinaka Sensei suggested the name Ho-Ei Juku ( mean ing literally ‘the school of united 
treasures’ ) and this was gratefully accepted. Mor inaka Sensei’s dojo in Japan was the Ho-Sei Juku  and his teacher, the 
legendary Iwata Sensei’s dojo was called Ho-Nan Juku , so the name was a natural cnoice, using the word Ei from the 
Japanese name for the United Kingdom, Ei-Koku.       
Now we can say w elcome to the Goju -Ryu Karate -Do Ho -Ei Juku. We are a non -political, independent karate club 
practicing Goju -Ryu style karate  and our senior members can go on to learn Muso Jikiden Eishin Ryu Iai -jutsu . The 
founder and chief instructor of the Ho -Ei Juku, Bri an 
Hinchliffe, established his group with the formation of the 
Blue Tiger Karate Club in Hastings in 1985. There has been  
extensive change and  development sinc e those early days . 
We are, however, delighted to keep this unusual name that is 
difficult to pronounce as it reflects the lineage and tradition of 
a true Art form, handed down from the teacher s of old . 
Morinaka Sensei sadly passed away in April 2013.   
Brian Hinchliffe has been privileged to receive his grades 
directly from the Dai Nippon Butoku Ka i in Japan and i n 2008 
was graded to 7th Dan in Goju -Ryu Karate  and 5th Dan in 
Iaido . Starting training in Martial Arts in 1972 and studying various Arts along the way, Brian has trained with many of the 
world’s leading Masters in both Goju -Ryu Karate and Iaido. The path has led Brian across the world to train, compete and 
teach seminars across Europe, the USA and of course, the Far East. In 2014, Brian became a member of the Zen Nihon 
Budo Renmei, based in Kyoto, Japan. In 2015, Brian was presented with an International Teaching Licence and grade d to 
8th Dan by the Zen Nihon Sogo -Budo R enmei,  Nihon Seibukan Dojo of Kyoto.  This promo tion will ensure the futu re 
connection to Japan for the Hoei Juku and its members and open the door to many opportunities  to travel, meet and 
train with today’s Masters of Goju -Ryu Karate  in Japan and around the world .
--- PAGE 12 ---
Training in Goju -Ryu Karate  
 
Reasons for training  
It’s fun – yes, it might feel like it hurts sometimes, but training is very enjoyable . Goju -Ryu is a mix of hard and soft 
movements  and there is something there for everyone . Karate provides the young with an excellent example in discipline 
and manners . Traini ng in a disciplined activity builds strength in the young to face challenges in the future . There is 
always the aim of achieving the next goal in training and more to be learnt . Compared to so many activities these days, 
Karate training need not be at all expensive . There are significant health and fitness benefits from regular exercise . 
Training in Karate teaches the ability to behave equally graciously in success and in failure . By attending classes regularly, 
there are great benefits in meeting other peo ple and travelling. Training develops a keen sense of awarene ss necessary 
to respond when confronted  by threats  in life.  
Aims and Objectives  
At the Ho -Ei Juku, you will experience training in a traditional Martial Art  (several ‘arts’ are available). There  is the 
opportunity to attend seminars and competition opportunities  if needed. The Organisation can p rovide the opportunity 
to travel, including Japan and Okinawa , for training . All instructors provide great  care to all Ho -Ei Juku members in a 
manner that  is fair to all, now and in the future  and seek to p romote the Art of Goju -Ryu within the community  
As a member of the Ho -Ei Juku, you are expected to abide by the following rules;   
 Train within the traditional format taught, respect senior grades and thei r decisions . 
 Keep to training times laid down as lateness in arriving to training can inconvenience all .  
 Wear a suitably clean, tidy Karate uniform, correctly coloured belt and Ho -Ei Juku badge .  
 Pay the appropriate fees for membership, training and  gradi ng promptly.  
 Refrain from p hysical, or verbal abuse , which  will not be tolerated at any time . 
Child Protection Policy  
The Ho -Ei Juku is keen to ensure the safety and well -being of all participants  at all times , especially children and 
vulnerable adults who may be involved with the club. To help with this, we have adopted the Child -protection Policy laid 
down by the EK F. A copy of this is available  online, or  any time for inspection  in the classes . 
Health & Safety  
There is a fixed etiquette in training wh ich, if followed carefully, will remove, or significantly reduce, the risks of training 
in a contact activity. The Ho -Ei Juku instructors have strict guidelines concerning coaching and safety is most important. 
We take all practical steps to safeguard stud ents and visitors from injury whilst training and insist that anyone training 
with us follows the instruction given. This is for the safety of all concerned.  
Equal Opportunities  
Goju -Ryu Karate -Do Ho -Ei Juku is open to all serious Martial Artists and does  not discriminate on the grounds of age, sex, 
colour, ethnic origin, religious beliefs, or physical disability. Known illnesses may require a letter from your doctor to 
confirm that you are fit to train. Please note that we are unable to accept people to t rain under the age of 5, or over 70 
as we cannot offer insurance to allow them to train in the Martial Arts.  
Data Protection Act (1998 ) 
Any information is recorded, stored and destroyed strictly in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998.