
--- PAGE 1 ---
Goju Ryu  Karate Do  
剛 柔 流 空 手 道 宝 英 塾 
Ho-Ei Juku  
 
Reference Manual  
Sensei Brian Hinchliffe 8th Dan
--- PAGE 3 ---
Acknowledgements  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensei Miyagi Chojun (1888 -1953)  
 
This manual would not have been possible without significant contributions by  so many people in my karate life, both 
teachers and students . Therefore , I would like  firstly  to thank my teacher, Meiyo Kancho Tada Heiji  (8th Dan), founder  of 
the Seishikan,  based in  Kyoto, for his  endless support and guidanc e in karate since the 1980s. Sadly, he passed away in 
September 2013. I have been fortunate to have trained with and learnt from so many other senior instructors in Goju Ryu 
and other karate schools, in Japan, the UK, the USA and around the w orld – and to a ll of them, I am forever indebted .  
As I began  karate training in 1972, I have been able to train  over the years  with literally thousands of people as peers , 
students  and teachers. When I began teaching karate in  1985, it was exciting to work with my own s tudents and watch 
them evolve . Some of those early students  are still  training with  me now  and each one of them  has helped in keeping me 
going through good times and bad, so I owe a massive thank you not just to my teachers, but also to those who have 
decided, whether for a short time,  or longer, to train with the Ho -Ei Juku group.  
Finally, I must thank the late, Sensei Morinaka Masakatsu (1929 -2013), without whom there would be no Ho -Ei Juku 
name. This will be discussed later. And of course, thank you , the reader,  for taking the time to read this short manual and 
I trust it helps to explain in some small way the manner  in which we train , measure our progress and attempt (as far as is 
possible)  to follow the excellent teachings and methods of our teachers from Japan and in particular the man considered 
to be the founder of Goju Ryu, Sensei Miyagi Chojun, without whom, I sometimes wonder what I would be doing now.