
--- PAGINA 1 ---
BODY CONDITIONING
EXERCISES
Ude Tanren  — Two-Person Conditioning  Exercises
Within the various schools of karate in Okinawa, there are also a great many con-
ditioning exercises that are done without tools, but with a training partner instead.  To
cover all of them and do justice to their value would require a book of its own and is
something 1 am working on. For this reason, only a few ude tanren drills have been
included here. However, once this kind of training becomes “normal,” the variety and
combination of strikes  and blocks a karateka  can come up with indicates the progress he
is making in the pursuit of realistic impact training for the body and mind. As well as
the conditioning  of the arms through regular practice, the purpose of ude tanren train-
ing is to cultivate the ability to deliver  and receive  “shock,” an important element  of any
karate technique, and the very thing that often brings many "thin-air” karateka (those
who train without  making  contact  with either each other or an appropriate training  aid)
to a standstill.  Much like the drills used against the ude kitae,  the ude tanren  exercises  en-
courage  the body to condition itself  while the mind (attitude) is toughened to withstand
A rare image of training at the Uechi ryu headquarters in
Okinawa, c. 1970.Kanei Uechi sensei (in the background) watches over oth-
ers training, while in the foreground students practice urfe
tanren,
higher levels  of discomfort brought  on by the shock of collision. With the familiarity  of
contact  comes a kind of reference point in the mind that allows an impact to cause less
confusion, in turn, allowing us to continue  on to a conclusion.  When unfamiliar things
happen, our mind automatically tries to work it out. Ude tanren familiarizes the mind
with close contact and the effects of impact upon the body. In a real situation, it is un-
reasonable to expect to walk away from a physical altercation without being hit, and for
BODY CONDITIONING EXERCISES | 147
--- PAGINA 2 ---
Studencs  at the Shinseidokan dojo use üïfe rtrnren to con-
dition their arms.Stepping forward  into a block is often a new experience
for /corate  students. Most step back when blocking.
Becoming accustomed to impact on the legs. Stepping forward while blocking allows the mind to stay
on the offensive.
this reason alone, it is essential that karateka  work with a training  partner (or with tools)
on a regular basis, and certainly more often than they work in thin air. Karate  is an art
of self-defense, a martial art, an art that requires not only an ability to hit, but also an
ability to withstand being hit. The weakest part of the body is quite  often the mind, and
hojo undo is a well-established method of developing  and strengthening it.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 148
--- PAGINA 3 ---
Exercise
Begin by facing your training partner and both swing your left arms together in a
relaxed manner (Figure  A). Impact  should be on the inside edge of the arms and not
on the soft underside where the veins and arteries are located close to the surface.
The aim is to build up the level of acceptable impact, which means heavy  contact at
an early stage can be counterproductive. Remember to keep the shoulders relaxed
and to move with a smooth swinging action. Build from the single impact exercise
of an inside (of the arm) gedan barai,  by continuing through and then swinging the
same arm back to make an outside  gedan barai (Figure B). dhe training  can be built
upon even more by combining an inside, and later, an outside chudan uke to the
practice in a continuous  flowing action (Figure C), alternating from arm to arm.
BODY CONDITIONING EXERCISES | 149
--- PAGINA 4 ---
A B
Other methods  of udetanren  include  stepping  forward and backward with a partner
while blocking  and striking  your partners  arm.  To achieve  this, have  one person  step
forward on the right leg and throw a chudan ziiki (mid-level punch) with the right
hand. At the same time, the ocher person steps backward with the left leg and blocks
with his right hand, using chudan  hikei uke (mid-level open-hand block, Figure A).
Then he repeats  the block with the left hand (Figure B) before  striking  the punching
arm with a right-handed shuto uchi (open-hand strike, Figure C). At that point the
roles are reversed and the defender steps forward with a right-handed chudan zuki
of his own, while the other person steps backward and repeats the same block and
strike combination. This stepping forward and backward can be repeated until che
required number has been completed or can be done continually for a set period of
Eime.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 150
--- PAGINA 5 ---
E
Ippon Uke Barai  - One-Step Blocking Practice
Facing your partner and standing in heiko dachi (natural stance) about one meter
apart (Figure A), both step forward with the right leg into sanchin dachi. Imme-
diately after the stance is made, both block with a right  jodan age uke (high rising
block) making impact at the wrist end of the forearm (Figure B). The block is then
withdrawn while both step back into heiko dachi (Figure  C). Repeating this exercise
on the right-hand side in quick succession allows a sense  of rhythm to be built into
the practice and assists with learning how to manage the breath. Exhaling  with the
block and inhaling while you move back regulates the pace and intensity of the
training  and stops you from training  with excessive  speed.  After blocking  w'ith  jodan
and stepping  back, repeat the same  exercise  with chudan  uke (mid-level block, Figure
D), step back (Figure E) and then forward again with gedan uke (lower-level block,
Figure F). With the gedan uke, step forward into shiko dachi (low stance).
BODY CONDITIONING EXERCISES | 151
--- PAGINA 6 ---
A second way to work this drill is to alternate  on each count. Begin with a left step
forward into sanchin dachi,  \eftjodan  uke\ step back. Then right step forward, right
chudan ukr, step back. Follow by a left step forward into shiko  dachi,  \etigedan  barai,
before stepping back for a third time. Once this can be done with control, expand
the exercise further by continuing  to change over and over until the desired number
of repetitions  has been completed  or a set time has elapsed.
Sandan Uke Barai  - Three-Step Blocking Practice
Also known by the name san dan gi (three-step technique), this practice introduces
consecutive forward and backward stepping. Begin by standing about one meter
apart from your training partner (Figure A). One person, steps forward with the
right leg into sanchin  dacht  and punches  jodan  zuki (head high punch) with the right
hand. The other person  steps back into sanchin  dachi  with the left leg and blocks the
punch with a right  jodan uke (Figure B). The attack continues by stepping forward
again into sanchin dachi and punching with the left hand, chudan zuki (mid  -level
punch),  at which point the person blocking, having stepped back with his right leg
to match the timing  of his partner,  again into sanchin  dachi,  blocks chudan  uke (mid-
level block) with his left arm (Figure C). With the third punch, step forward and
drop into shiko dachi', then throw a right  gedan zuki (low-  level punch).  The person
blocking moves back, also into shiko  dachi, and blocks the punch with a right  gedan
barai (low-level sweeping block, Figure D). From here the roles  are reversed and the
practice moves back in the opposite direction.
Some important points to remember  are first, the primary purpose of this training
is to condition the body to contact. If a block fails, a little impact from the punch
should be felt and while great care should be taken when punching to the head, the
body blows should carry' a little and eventually a fair amount of wreight. Secondly,
when blocking you should not try to evade the punches but instead blend with the
other persons movement with good timing; try to sweep the other persons punch
away. Therefore, the backward step should not be thought of as a retreat, but a way
of maintaining an appropriate (counter-punching) distance. The people blocking
should never move  first or out of their own punching range. In the beginning, main-
tain a strict rhythm ofstep first, then technique. Later on, if both partners  agree, it is
possible to go faster and challenge each other at speeds closer to those found in real
fighting. If done over the span of say ten or more minutes, sandan uke barai  taxes the
resources of even the fittest and strongest  karateka.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 152
--- PAGINA 7 ---
B
BODY CONDITIONING EXERCISES | 153
--- PAGINA 8 ---
A. E.
Wrist Rotation
This exercise is done to help gain an understanding of connection (muchimi) with
the other person and to improve  your own ability to anchor yourself  to the ground
by adopting a low center of gravity; It is a simple-looking  exercise that if done prop-
erly improves your overall upper body  strength and that all-important  sense of con-
nection with the ground and with your opponent.
Begin by facing a training partner. Both stand in migi sanchin dachi (right leg for-
ward in sanehin stance) and place the right wrists together  as shown (Figure  A). From
here, both begin to twist the hands back toward them (Figure B), keeping  the palms
facing upward until the fingers are pointing directly back toward the face (Figure
C). At that point, while continuing to twist, the hands turn over so that the palms
are now facing down (Figure D). Each then tries to close down his armpit and in
so doing gives the other a slight pull (Figure E). The exercise is repeated in reverse,
remembering to keep the wrists together at all times and to keep the hand rotating
back toward you each time.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 154