
--- PAGINA 1 ---
PREPARATION  EXERCISES
About  Junbi Undo
Iran Okinawan karate  dojo,  warming-up  exercises are known as junbi undo, prepa-
ration exercises. Within many Western schools of karate today; the warm-up exercises
often have little in common with the mental activity that follows, neither  do they always
relate particularly well to the physical demands placed upon the specific muscle groups
and tendons throughout the body that are about to be used in the karate training itself.
While it is not my intention to deny the importance of warming up before  karate train-
ing of any sort begins in earnest, it has to be said that the activities engaged in under
this banner can often fall short when it comes to the question of preparing rhe body
and mind for the demands  of karate.  While  aerobic  fitness  and muscular  strength are no
doubt important, the strong body and calm mind required in traditional karate  is based
on the understanding of your body weight and how, through the connection with the
ground and a calm and focused mind, that body weight  can be best used to deal with and
manipulate the force  of an attack.  While all hell may be going on around us, we strive to
remain calm inside. In karate, we try to be the eye of the storm.
Within the Goju ryu tradition of Okinawan karate, a series of exercises have been
handed down since the days of Chojun Miyagi, the traditions founder. These exercises
are intended to not only warm up the body, making it ready for training, but also to
engage the particular muscles and tendons  used in the various  techniques  of karate.  They
also play an additional role of focusing the mind on a particular part of the body as the
routine is worked through, thus giving an early appreciation for some of the postures
and “feelings” you are searching for in your karate technique. Because almost all of the
techniques  of Goju ryu karate  are shared to some extent by other schools of martial arts,
this set ofjunbi undo  exercises  should not be considered  as being  solely beneficial to Goju
ryu practitioners  alone.
In the main, there  are two kinds ofjunbi undo exercises.  The first stretches the mus-
cles and tendons  and loosens up the joints, which helps to promote  suppleness and in-
crease the range  of motion in the moving parts of the body. This group begins to stir the
blood and raise the body's temperature. The second group of exercises is done to build
strength and stamina  in the major muscle  groups of the body and to increase  your men-
tal powers of endurance. Over time, these two forms of junbi undo combined enables
the techniques of karate to be performed well within the range of the karateka’s  mental
strength and physical suppleness. This in turn allows him to move freely and writhout
the stresses imposed on a less supple  or healthy body.  The mind as well, familiar  with the
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 9
--- PAGINA 2 ---
limits of the body, is calm and more able to achieve that relaxed state of concentration
needed to deal successfully with conflict.
Beginning with the toes and working vertically up through the body to the neck,
the first set of exercises is an excellent way to prepare both physically and mentally for
the rigors of the training to come and to point your attention directly toward specific
postures and positions encountered later in the actions of karate. These exercises, or
something like them, should be considered as much a part of your karate training as a
block,  a punch,  ora kick. What follows are the drills  1 teach and are practiced in my dojo
before every training session. Even when the entire training is given over to hojo undo y
these exercises  are still done because students  should never attempt to lift heavy weights
from scratch without preparing their body and mind in some way first. To do so is to
invite the possibility of torn muscles, tendons, or perhaps even something worse. The
fibers of the muscles wrork better when prepared; so remember, you shock them into
activity  at your peril. AU these  exercises should be considered general warming  up drills,
albeit specific to karate.  To improve your flexibility and muscular strength to their full
potential, you should seek expert guidance from a qualified teacher of yoga, gymnastics,
or weightlifting.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 10
--- PAGINA 3 ---
B
H.
Begin by standing in heiko dachi  (natural stance. Figure  A), resting the hands on the
hips, and focusing your attention on the soles of the feet (teisoku).  Spread the toes
as widely as possible and try to make as much surface contact with the ground as
you can.
From here lift up your big toe (Figure B) and hold for a second before returning  it to
the ground,  gripping  the floor, and lifting  the smaller toes (Figure  C) oft the ground.
This exchange is repeated at least ten times. The big toe up position is the same pos-
ture made with the foot when kicking yoko geri (side kick). With the big toe down
and the small toes up, this foot position is used in kata when turning front on from a
sideward stance,  as in the gekisai kata,  i.e., when moving  from heiko  dachi to sanchin
dachi after the jodan shuto uchi (head height open-hand strike). It is also found to-
ward the end of the kata saifa  when moving  on from the second chudan  urazuki  into
sanchin dachi, to throw hidari  jodan  gyaku zuki (left side head  -height punch).
Standing  in heiko  dachi (Figure  A) and placing  your weight on one leg, raise the op-
posite heel and grip the floor with the toes with as much strength as possible. Twist
the heel inward toward the standing leg (Figure D), but do not allow the toes to lose
their grip; hold for four or five seconds before releasing the tension. This twisting
exercise should be repeated at least ten times with each foot. Over time, this drill
increases the strength of the toes and improves their overall dexterity.  This is impor-
tant in karate,  as often within kata subtle  control tactics using the toes are employed.
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 11
--- PAGINA 4 ---
One example occurs immediately  after the kicks in the gekisai kata,  and in the Goju
ryu kata suparinpei where they precede  the awase  zuki (double  punch) is yet another.
In these  and other kata,  the toes are placed on the opponents  foot to keep him from
retreating  and to hold him there for the strike that follows. During  this time, the big
toe is used to apply pressure on a vital spot just above the opponent's toes (kori).
Placing  your body weight  on one leg, roll the toes of the opposite  foot back  and forth
on the floor before making a circular motion (Figure E). Allow some weight to be
brought to bear on the toes being rolled and take care to roll the big toe. This exercise
increases  your awareness  of the toes and improves the overall dexterity  of the big toe,
a weapon so often left out of the karate  arsenal, and yet, one that can have a mind-
numbing  effect when applied correctly  as described in the previous  exercise. Our big
toe also provides us with the ability to balance properly  and our understanding  of its
relationship  with the ground is vital for our stability'.
With the hands resting  on the hips, raise the body up onto the balls of the feet (ko-
shi) and hold for two or three seconds (Figure F). This posture  works the tendon at
the back of the ankle (.Achilles  tendon), stretches the calf muscles, and aids in the
acquisition of good balance.
Placing the feet back on the floor (Figure G), rock backward on the heels (Figure
H) before returning  to the original position  on the balls  of the feet. Warming  up the
tendons  and calf muscles of the leg, the first posture on the balls of the feet is also
the foot position found in a karate  front kick (mae  geri).  When on the heels, this foot
position is found in the Goju ryu kata seisan,  toward the end when kicking  with the
heel into the lower torso or bladder of an opponent (kakato  geri). In the Shotokan
kata unsu, this kind of kick is also used to great effect about two-thirds of the way
through the kata? although in that particular  school of karate the technique is also
known as kesage  geri.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 12
--- PAGINA 5 ---
i-Undo Jnnb Junbi-Undo J
Returning the hands to the hips, stand on the left
leg and raise the right knee so that the thigh is
level;  doing this helps develop balance. Rotate the
ankle, first clockwise and then counterclockwise.
Then flick the bottom part of the leg out as if kick-
ing. Keep the leg relaxed while you do this and
remember to form the foot properly as if doing a
karate front kick (mae  geri). Repeat this by stand-
ing on the right leg and raising the left knee.Keeping  the armpits  closed
tightly,  hold the aims  out in
front of the body with the
palms of the hands open
and firm. Springing  off the
floor with the ankles,  shoot
the knees, alternately, into
the open hands in a steady
and rhythmical wav mak- J J
ing as much impact with
the palm of the hand as
possible. This movement
not only prepares the legs
for action later in the kara-
te training propen but also
helps spotlight the actual
mechanics involved in the
execution of a kick with
the knee {heiza  gert)  .
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 13
--- PAGINA 6 ---
Junbi-Undo
Place the feet together with the heels touching
and the toes apart making a V-shape with the
feet (musubi dachi). Leaning forward, the hands
are placed on the knees, where a little pressure is
brought to bear to push them backward (Figure
A), At this point, be sure the toes, especially the
big toe, stay firmly on the ground, gripping the
floor. The big toe provides us with the ability to
balance properly, and a strong connection to the
ground with this particular digit is therefore es-
sential.
Bend the knees and drop the body down into a
squatting position, keeping  the back straight  and
the knees out to the sides as the heels leave the
floor (Figure B). Remain in this posture  for a few
seconds before returning to the starting position.
Tie bending and standing is repeated at least
ten times, and care should be taken not to over-
extend the knee joint by dropping too quickly
into the squat. The hands remain on the knees
throughout.Junbi-Undo _)
On the final squat, hold for
at least thirty seconds. Push
the knees open and back,
and keep the back straight:
now close your eyes. After
thirty seconds, open your
eyes and stand up. This
exercise helps develop bal-
ance while strengthening
the toes and is exactly the
posture (stance) required in
the Goju ryu kata kururunfa.
Toward the end of the kata,
a 180-degree turn is per-
formed bringing  the karateka
into tnHsubi dachi  (V-shaped
stance) before dropping im-
mediately into koshi dachi
(squatting stance —standing
on the balls of the feet). In
the kata, this stance facili-
tates a throwing  technique.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO [ 14
--- PAGINA 7 ---
A,
Junbi-Undo
Step out into shiko  dachi  (low stance) and place the hands  on the inside  of the thighs
close to the knees. Drop the right shoulder forward, turn the head gently, and look
to the left (Figure A). The right arm now pushes the right leg backward while the
left arm checks the left leg from moving forward.  Again, take care to keep the toes of
both feet firmly  gripping the floor throughout this exercise.
The stretch should be felt along the top of the inner thigh and should be held for
several  seconds before  switching  over and repeating  on the opposite  side of the body
(Figure B).
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 15
--- PAGINA 8 ---
7 Junbi-Undo
Staying  in shiko  dachi,  run both forearms  down the inside  of the legs until the elbows
are slightly above the knees. Bring an equal pressure to bear on both legs to push
them apart. With the toes gripping the floor, hold the chest up, as upright as pos-
sible, to maximize the stretch on the legs. Hold for at least ten seconds.
A timely reminder here—all stretches  should be done with care and never rushed.
Regardless of how flexible you might be, never drop into or come out of a stretch
quickly. Always perform these actions slowly and methodically, and take care of
your body.
When moving in shiko dachi (Low stance), it is important not to Lean with the
shoulders first or to simply spin one Leg around the other. Although there are
some occasions where a spin is used, it is specific to the techniques being per-
formed. Moving  incorrectly  in relation  to the technique we are trying to do takes
away control and the loss of control hinders our ability to affect the outcome
properly, as well as the opportunity  to adapt should the need arise.  In this case,
the body should remain upright while the weight transfer  is taken care of by the
Legs  when the "stepping" Leg pushes the weight onto the "standing"  leg before
moving quickly to its next Location. The result of moving from one posture to
another, regardless of which method is being employed, should be predictable
and never Left to chance. Along with poor control of our own body comes a
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 16
--- PAGINA 9 ---
Lean onto the right leg and keep the left leg stretched out, with the foot and toes
flat on the ground (Figure A). Rest the hands on the knees and try to maintain an
image  of the calf muscles being  stretched by your posture.  Without  raising  the body,
move across onto the opposite leg, not by leaning, but by isolating the leg muscles
and making the bent leg move the weight of the body across to the other side in
as level a manner as possible. The idea is to recognize the exchange of your body
weight from one leg to the other. This “feeling” is necessary in many Goju ryu kata,
but particularly  so in the kata seiyunchin. Hold the posture  on either  side for several
seconds before moving back across in a steady manner.  Ten repetitions  on both sides
gives the legs a good workout.
Moving directly on from the previous exercises and into this one, drop the body
down into a lower (squatting) position and allow the foot of the outstretched leg to
rest on the heel with the toes pointing upward, while keeping the foot of the squat-
ting leg flat on the floor (Figure B). "Ihe stretch has moved now from the lower leg
to the upper leg and with the lower center of gravity now involved, the feeling of
transferring  your weight increases; doing the exercise correctly strengthens the legs.
diminished ability to control  someone else. It is important to remember that at
the core of karate  training  is the challenge to control  ourselves first. This speaks
to our mind as well as our body and perhaps sheds light on why complete mas-
tery of karate is an achievement accomplished by so few.
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 17
--- PAGINA 10 ---
to Junbi-LIndo Junbi-Undo /
With the legs having now had a good
stretch, return to shiko dachi once
more; place the elbows on the inside
of the knees and push backward, re-
membering to keep the body as up-
right as possible and to grip the floor
with the toes. Extra leverage may be
gained by grasping  the ankles with the
hands.Standing  in heiko  dachi (natural  stance)
with the hands resting lightly on the
hips, rotate  the hips in a circular  action.
Try to keep the ankles  and shoulders  in
line and confine the movement to the
central part of the body minimizing  as
much as possible  any movement of the
shoulders; rotate the hips both clock-
wise and counterclockwise.
Within Goju ryu karate there is a method of turning  that requires a strong twist-
ing action, and this can be seen in the kata: sanchin dai ni, serifa, seiyunchin,
sanseiru, seipai, seisan and suparinpei, where the successful execution of the
technique immediately following the turn is directly Linked to the amount of
torque built up in the body immediately prior to the turn. If the shoulders and
the hips twist on a different axis during the turn, then the transfer of energy is
Lost while the body becomes unstable and Loss of balance occurs. Under these
circumstances, the technique  is almost certain to fail.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 18
--- PAGINA 11 ---
Junbi-Undo 11
Standing in heiko dachi (natural stance) hold the left arm in a chudan haito uke
(mid-level thumb-edge hand block) posture  (Figure  A) and support it by placing  the
right hand, palm facing  down, under the elbow From there inhale deeply through
the nose while you perform mawashi uke (circular block, Figure B) and come to the
position seen in Figure  C.
Keeping the body and head facing forward, bend at the waist to the left, and with
a strong  exhalation through the open mouth, push the arms to the side (Figure D).
The breath should be synchronized with the movement,  as it is in sanchin  kata,  and
should begin  and end together.  Inhalations  accompany  the mawashi  uke movements,
while the exhalations are matched with each stretch. Return to the start position,
switch hands, and repeat the exercise to the right.
Although found in many kata throughout the Goju ryu system, and in the kata
from many other schools of karate, the mawashi uke, torn uchi (circular block,
tiger strike) combination  is always connected to a particular  breathing pattern:
inhaling with the block, and exhaling with the strike. In some kata, these ac-
tions are performed  quickly,  while in other kata they are performed with a heavy,
deliberate feeling. Nevertheless, the combination of physical  movement and co-
ordinated breathing is nowhere better felt than during sanchin kata. Here, the
slow movements and the deep breathing concentrate the sensation of harmony
between  the physical  and the cerebral.  Together,  this combination  often leads to
results that amount to more than the sum of its parts.
PREPARATION EXERCISES | W
--- PAGINA 12 ---
J
iz -
,------- f-
As well as stretching to the sides, a backward (Figure E) and forward (Figure F)
stretch is also performed. Always beginning from the same posture (Figure A) and
performing mawashi uke before moving  in the same direction as the arm being held
out in front, the backward twist should be done with care taken to keep the body
upright as if twisting on a vertical alignment that runs directly through the center
of the body.
Arm swings (next page), with the hand formed  into a fist, are found in the Goju
ryu kata, saifa, as well as in the opening sequence of the Shotokan kata, chinte.
It is yet one more technique  that is common to many schools of karate and no
doubt harks back to a time before individual schools existed. In spite of the
often  -ingrained ideologies that exist in the minds of many followers of today's
karate styles, the physical evidence is all around to show how such thinking  is
fundamentally flawed.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 20
--- PAGINA 13 ---
D
12 Junbi-Undo
■Stand  naturally and swing the arms backward in a large circular motion (Figure A).
Begin slowly and then swing as quickly as possible several times. Reverse the swing
(Figure B), remembering to start slowly and end fast.
Finally,  swing  one arm forward and the other  arm backward at the same time (Figure
C). Follow7the same pattern of slow7and quick  swings before reversing the direction
of each arm (Figure D), swinging  each arm in the opposing  direction to bring the ex-
ercise to a close. Throughout the whole  exercise, the arms should be held completely
relaxed with no muscle tension at all being used.
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 21
--- PAGINA 14 ---
B
Juiibi-Undo I )
Remaining in heikodachi  (natural  stance), place the left hand on the side of the body
with the fingers pointing up (Figure A). The fingers of the right hand cross over
the front of the fingers of the left hand. Slowly push the left arm out straight while
maintaining contact with the right hand; this push begins to stretch the fingers of
the left hand backward. The point of the exercise is to increase the flexibility of the
wrist and fingers, while at the same time allow, with the gripping hand, a chance to
become accustomed to controlling another person when applying a wrist or finger
lock, something that becomes apparent in the final three positions  of this exercise.
Return the left hand to the side of the body and rotate it so that the fingers now
point downward (Figure B). From here, push the left arm back out again and insert
the thumb of the right hand behind the left, placing it firmly in the center of the
back of the hand. Apply forward pressure  with the thumb on the outstretched hand
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO I 22
--- PAGINA 15 ---
while pulling the fingers backward. As well as giving  the fingers of one hand a good
stretch, this position permits the opposite hand to mimic a basic controlling  grip.
Release the grip on the fingers, but maintain contact by allowing the thumb of the
right hand to keep in touch with the back of the left hand. Bend the left arm at
the elbow and bring it up into a chudan uke (mid  -level blocking position).  At the
same time swing the fingers of the right hand around the back of the left hand and
grab the large thumb muscle {abductor  pollicis  brevis}  with the fingers. Keeping the
forearm vertical and the joints of the wrist and elbow one above the other (Figure
C), apply pressure  with the right hand to twist the left hand; pulling the left thumb
backward toward the center  of the body while the right thumb is pushing  in the op-
posite direction does this.
In the fourth and final part of this exercise, release the grip with the fingers and roll
the left hand inward so that the palm is facing down and the fingers are pointing
toward the right-hand side of the body.  This  action  should be completed  while keep-
ing the hands in contact with each other, first, through the right thumb and then
through the palm of the right hand sliding  over the top of the left hand. With both
elbows pointing down, bring pressure to bear on the back of the left hand (Figure
C). The knuckles of the left hand should sit in the center of the right palm. Once
again this posture not only stretches the wrist joint, but also mimics the hand posi-
tion applied when controlling an opponent and reinforces the karatekas introduc-
tion to the concept of muehimi.  When the sequence is complete, repeat the same
four parts of this exercise on the opposite  side.
Muehimi is a word used in the Okinawan dialect {hogen) to describe the texture
of rice when it has been pounded into a sticky, glutinous consistency. In Goju
ryu karate, the word is used to portray a feeling of connection with either the
ground, the parts of our own body as when the arms cross each other during
blocking, for example, or when contact is made with another person. It is a
similar feeling to magnetism, if I can borrow a scientific term. Once contact  is
made with the other person, you apply your body's weight to keep it there. Once
muehimi is understood, it allows control of an opponent while alleviating the
need to grab onto or hold him.
PREPARATION EXERCISES I 23
--- PAGINA 16 ---
Junbi-Undo rt
Assume a heiko dachi (natural stance), making sure the leet are slightly wider than
shoulder  width and parallel; hold both arms in the chudan  uke (mid-level block) pos-
ture. Without raising  your center of gravity or the shoulders, stretch the arms out a
little and open the hands and fingers as wide  as possible (Figure  A), taking  in a deep
breath through the nose while you do so. Keeping the energy in the fingers, exhale
strongly through the open mouth and make a fist with both hands.
Take care to close down the armpit on both sides with the exhalation (Figure B).
Keep in mind also that the toes should stretch forward and then grip the door hard
while the hands become  fists.  Squeeze  the abdominal muscles to push the air out and
focus on the body’s center (tanden),  exactly as in the kata sanchin. Relax back into
the original posture and repeat the exercise three times. The relationship between
this exercise  and the fundamental  kata of Goju  ryu is clear,  and by its inclusion in the
junbi undo routine» new students  are introduced immediately  to the foundations  of
the karate  they are about to start learning.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 24
--- PAGINA 17 ---
D
Standing in heiko dachi, push the palms of the hands together hard and stretch the
arms out in front of the chest (Figure  A), inhaling while you do so.
Continue to push the hands together hard while you draw them back toward the
chest (Figure B) and exhale through the open mouth.
Making a line between both elbows, try to draw the wrists back a little beyond chat
line to stretch the wrist joints (Figure C).
Breathe in one more time and while you exhale,  focus the pressure  on the fingertips
(Figures D and E).
PREPARATION EXERCISES | 25
--- PAGINA 18 ---
Illis exercise is repeated by stretching  above the head (Figure F) and also toward the
ground (Figure G). In each case, a strong exhalation accompanies the hands return
to the body (Figure B), and care is taken not to raise the shoulders. Each time the
hands return to the body, focus pressure  on the wrist first and then on the fingertips,
as seen in Figures C and E.
I Ji the Go/ a ryu kata seipai,  near the beginning,  a drop is made into shiko  dachi (low
stance)  and trom this posture  the right  elbow is used,  either in a striking  (hiji uchi)  action
or in a blocking action (hiji uke). Regardless ot which action is taken, the block or the
strike, the feeling in the arms during the kata is the same as in this exercise.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO | 26
--- PAGINA 19 ---
B
O
Standing in heiko dachi, (Figure A), natural stance, with the hands resting on the
hips, drop the chin to the chest and breathe in through the nose. Without holding
the breath, move the head slowly backward as far as it will go, breathing  out through
the open mouth while you do so. As always, the physical movement and the breach
should be synchronized to begin and end at the same time. Relax the shoulders and
focus the mind on the harmony of the breath and posture while the head is gently
moved trom one position to the next and back again. Several repetitions  should be
completed.
From a natural position, breathe in through the nose and turn the head to the left,
breathing out as you go and making sure the right shoulder is pushing  backward to
enhance the stretch (Figure B). From there, slowly turn the head to the right, inhal-
ing and exhaling  while you complete the move, and remember to now push the left
shoulder backward.  This exercise should also be repeated several times.
PREPARATION EXERCISES I 27
--- PAGINA 20 ---
Holding the head naturally (Figure C), breathe in before dropping the head over
to one side on an exhalation while pushing the opposite  shoulder down toward the
ground. Hold this for just a second before moving the head slowly  over to the other
side.
Keeping the body upright  and standing  in a natural posture,  cup the hands over the
back of the head (Figure D). Keep the elbows tucked in and the back up straight;
allow the arms to become heavy, gently stretching the top of the spine. Hold this
for ten seconds before slowly releasing the pressure from the arms and returning to
a natural position.
THE ART OF HOJO UNDO I 28